
COVID19 2021-06-10
==================

# Weekly Scientific Discussion Thread - June 07, 2021


Created: 2021-06-07 12:00:15

This  weekly thread is for scientific discussion pertaining to COVID-19.  Please post questions about the science of this virus and disease here  to collect them for others and clear up post space for research  articles.

A short reminder about  our rules: Speculation about medical treatments  and questions about  medical or travel advice will have to be removed and  referred to  official guidance as we do not and cannot guarantee that  all  information in this thread is correct.

We  ask for top level answers in this thread to be appropriately sourced  using primarily peer-reviewed articles and government agency releases,  both to be able to verify the postulated information, and to facilitate  further reading.

Please only  respond to questions that you are comfortable in answering without   having to involve guessing or speculation. Answers that strongly  misinterpret the quoted articles might be removed and repeated offenses  might result in muting a user.

If you have any suggestions or feedback, please [send us a modmail](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/covid19), we highly appreciate it.

Please keep questions focused on the science. Stay curious!

https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/nuanxs/weekly_scientific_discussion_thread_june_07_2021/
## Comment #1


**Please read before commenting or asking a question:**

This is a very strict science sub. No linking news sources (Guardian, SCMP, NYT, WSJ, etc.). Questions and comments in this thread should pertain to research surrounding SARS-CoV-2 and its associated disease, COVID-19. Do not post questions that include personal info/anecdotes, asking when things will "get back to normal," or "where can I get my vaccine" (that is for r/Coronavirus)! If you have mask questions, please visit r/Masks4All. Please make sure to read our rules carefully before asking/answering a question as failure to do so may result in a ban.

**If you talk about you, your mom, your friend's, etc., experience with COVID/COVID symptoms or vaccine experiences, or any info that pertains to you or their situation, you will be banned.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


Is there any information on how long the J&J adenovirus vector and the spike proteins it produces stick around for, and what organ penetration looks like? 

E.g. I found the following from moderna's filing but could not find the Janssen one:

"Low levels of mRNA could be detected in all examined tissues except the kidney [in rats]. This included heart, lung, testis, and also brain tissues, indicating that the mRNA/LNP platform crossed the blood/brain barrier, although to very low levels (2–4% of the plasma level)." 
"The mRNA constructs were not measurable after maximum 3 days in tissues other than the muscle, lymph nodes, and spleen (~25 hours in brain)."

PDF: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/assessment-report/covid-19-vaccine-moderna-epar-public-assessment-report_en.pdf
## Comment #3


Is there any published research that raises concerns about the safety or efficacy of infrequent, repeated mRNA therapy/vaccines over long periods of time?

For instance, [https://www.immunohorizons.org/content/immunohorizon/3/7/282.full.pdf](https://www.immunohorizons.org/content/immunohorizon/3/7/282.full.pdf) reports that in mice, weekly injections of mRNA formulated in PEGylated LNP led to an immune response that reduced the efficacy of the mRNA treatment. Note that in this paper, reducing the frequency to biweekly injections resolved the issue, so infrequent administration would not seem to be a problem; I mention it only to provide an example of the sort of thing that I am asking for information about.
## Comment #4


When can we expect to know for certain whether vaccine booster shots will be recommended? If they are, when should we expect them to become available?
## Comment #5


Has there been a risk:benefit analysis for Teen Vaccine induced Myocarditis vs Teen Covid19 Hospitalisation ?
Should a pause/warning be issued for this the way one was issued for VITT with JnJ?
## Comment #6


So let's say you have a severe allergic reaction to the first dose of the vaccine, and they recommend you not get the second dose.

Does the first dose offer any valuable protection, specifically against the Delta variant? I know they say it's less effective, something like just 33% protection vs. nearly 90%, but my question is more...will it help make the virus less severe should you still get it?

One dose may not do the best job of full protection, but would it make the symptoms less severe?
## Comment #7


Considering that it's been reported that people need 2 doses of vaccine for good protection against the "Delta" (Indian) variant, what does that mean for people who received the J&J (single-dose) vaccine? Has there been any research on this?
## Comment #8


I saw a local news article that said the Delta variant is more lethal, but I haven’t seen studies here that indicate that. Could it be an editing mistake, or is it actually more lethal? Any stats on how it could affect unvaccinated kids?
## Comment #9


Is there any measurement how effective the Delta variant is in breaking through prior infection antibodies?
## Comment #10


On Swedish Twitter a number of people, some with epidemiological backgrounds, are saying that excess mortality shouldn't be used to evaluate a countries pandemic response. I am fairly certain this is almost entirely the because excess mortality looks pretty average in Sweden when comparing to the rest of Europe and most of these people are critics of the response so I think it is some form of motivated reasoning.

But I still wanted to ask, is there any reason why one wouldn't use excess mortality over reported deaths?
## Comment #11


Is there any data on hospitalization of fully/partially doses people in the UK? There's lots of talk on twitter about the cases there showing a similar pattern to previous waves
## Comment #12


Is it known what kind of protection on population level can be inferred from antibody testing? There is research that looks at infections in people who has positive PCR and obviously phase 3 trial for vaccinated people, but I have never seem anyone look at those who tested positive for antibodies.
## Comment #13


What did India do to curb their outbreak:

[https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/country/india/](https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/country/india/)
## Comment #14


The inconsistency in studies on reinfection is frustrating. The recent paper posted here today or yesterday from the Cleveland Clinic had 0% reinfections over 5 months. But then there was the other recent paper that had an odds ratio of infection that was *higher* among convalescent workers.
## Comment #15


Facebook rumors claim that vaccination can lead to death due to „antibody-addiction“ within 2 years after vaccination.
I know that this is far fetched and most likely untrue. But could anyone mythbust this so my facebook-mother stops crying? she thinks I’m killing myself because i signed up for vaccination :/
## Comment #16


Any leads on studies re average incubation periods of the different virus variants? Tia.
## Comment #17


On the delta variant, is it a factor that UK is mostly AZ while Israel/Canada/US are mostly the mRNA vaccines?
## Comment #18


I am wondering if there is any literature regarding the biodistribution of the mRNA (and thus the locations where the spike protein is expressed) that I might be missing.

There seems to be a large difference between the natural route of infection with Covid and the route of the spike protein with mRNA vaccination.  With a natural infection with Covid, the virus binds to the ACE-2 protein, and enters the cell in that way. In many cases it remains confined to the pneumocytes. In a minority of the cases the virus further enters the body, and even then the virus gets presented to the immune system via the MHC complexes.
But the vaccine gets introduced to the body via a a LNP particle and injected into the muscle. It doesn't have its own receptor, and it can aspecifically enter any cell.  There are very few (and limited) studies performed with regards to the biodistribution of the vaccine, and even then they were only performed on mice and monkeys. What is known is that it enters muscle cells and antigen presenting cells. In other words, this protein would otherwise never be presented to the immune system in this way, because the spike protein itself gets expressed on the cell membrane of these cells, and does not get presented via MHC complexes like it would with a natural Covid infection.
We do not know if this can be harmful or not. And it is also not clear what could happen if the vaccine enters endothelial cells, neurons, or other cells or tissues. Isn't it a possibility that the myocarditis cases being seen now, are a result of the vaccine entering cardiac muscle cells and expressing the spike protein on these cells?

The vaccine mRNA is also created in such a way as to optimalize the production of the spike protein. This was done by modifying the Cap and by elongating the poly-A tail. The codons were also chosen so that this mRNA is more strongly transcribed than the cell's own mRNA. the mRNA does not enter the cells' cytosol in the normal way, but in an aspecific way. Does this have consequences for the cells, which would normally never produce the spike protein?
## Comment #19


I have a question, and this concerns the science behind segregating vaxxed and non-vaxxed people in concerts, bars etc.

If I have a group of 6 people, and 5 are vaccinated, what threat does the 6th pose to the other 5?  Or what threat do the other 5 pose to the 6th?  My understanding of herd immunity is that's how it works.  80% of people (I think that's the number) protect the rest, because the virus doesn't have vectors to infect people.  And even if the 6th person *has* it, the other 5 are protected because of their vaccine.

If that's the case, couldn't a vaccinated person basically solicit make-outs in the ER and be safe from serious infection? (note: this is hyperbolic for example purposes, and not recommended, like, *at all).*

What am I missing, here?  How did immuno-compromised people, or folks who couldn't get vaccinated because of allergies, cope prior to 2019?

What makes covid19 so special that we're trying to re-segregate people again?
## Comment #20


RECOVERY trial closed the aspirin arm on 18th of March, so about two and half months ago ([https://www.recoverytrial.net/files/recovery-dmc-letter-18-march-2021.pdf](https://www.recoverytrial.net/files/recovery-dmc-letter-18-march-2021.pdf)). For other arms they have produced at least a press release with results very quickly, close to the time of closing the arm. I've been looking at the site and news but can't find any results for the aspirin arm. Any ideas why it's taking so long, or if the results are in fact available somewhere?
## Comment #21


In terms of something that might appeal to the vaccine hesitant, is there a succinct explainer for how the mRNA vaccines work, potential side effects, and addressing common concerns with it? Preferably backed up with links or excerpts from the research studies on them?
## Comment #22


Is there any literature on the costs and benefits of vaccinating teens rather than donating those vaccines for countries still behind on vaccinating adults?
## Comment #23


Is the J&J one-shot vaccine as effective at protecting against the Delta variant as the mRNA vaccines?
## Comment #24


Reposting since the other old thread got locked but has there been any data about mixing Pfizer and Moderna shots, or different dose intervals for Pfizer/Moderna (besides the UK one that looked at 12 weeks vs. 3 weeks)?
## Comment #25


Quick question about COVID’s R0 value. There’s been recent studies coming out suggesting the virus was circulating in the states by Jan 2020. [example](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/comments/nvcgny/molecular_evidence_of_sarscov2_in_new_york_before/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf) Does this have any effect on our estimated R0?

For example if the original R0 was calculated assuming the virus wasn’t spreading until early March, when in fact it has been in circulation since December, wouldn’t that indicate a lower transmission rate? Or is that irrelevant to how recent R0 values were calculated.
## Comment #26


a number of studies show breastfeeding women pass immunities onto their infants. I can so far only find studies using rna vaccines. is there any reason to think this would not be true for AstraZeneca?
## Comment #27


Hi!

I read that the antibodies produced with Covid-19 vaccines last only for six months (they don't have conclusive data on this). Then what is the reason behind vaccinating everyone, if  their immunity lasts only for six months? Since vaccination is taking time in some countries, by the time everybody gets vaccinated, others' immunity may not protect against Covid-19 anymore. 

Am I missing something here?
## Comment #28


how much difference would booster shots make? the vaccine makers say they can make boosters for this fall, is this because people think this virus will still have many cases for this year and last until next year?
## Comment #29


So I was just curious, if a person gets a 3rd dose of same vaccine they got as the 1st 2 by mistake, would that be harmful to the body? I'm talking about pfizer vaccine specifically
## Comment #30


Assuming current gen vaccines are enough to reduce the strain on healthcare systems while society has returned to normal, do we have any good sources of information that shows the likelihood that the coronavirus will mutate enough to "fully escape" current gen vaccines, enough for it to be a problem for healthcare systems again? I was under the impression that scientists consider the coronavirus a stable virus and that a full escape mutation is highly improbable. Is this true and do you have any sources I should read on this topic? Thanks.
# Poor antibody response to BioNTech/Pfizer COVID-19 vaccination in SARS-CoV-2 naïve residents of nursing homes


Created: 2021-06-10 08:44:26



https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.06.08.21258366v1
## Comment #1


**Reminder:** This post contains a **preprint** that has **not been peer-reviewed.**

Readers should be aware that preprints have not been finalized by authors, may contain errors, and report info that has **not yet been accepted or endorsed in any way by the scientific or medical community.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


#Abstract

**Background**

Residents of nursing homes (NH) are at high risk of COVID-19 related morbidity and death and may respond poorly to vaccination because of old age and frequent comorbidities.

**Methods**

Forty residents and forty staff members either naïve or previously infected with SARS-CoV-2 were recruited in two NH in Belgium before immunization with two doses of 30μg BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine at day 0 and day 21. Binding antibodies (Ab) to SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain (RBD), spike domains S1 and S2, RBD Ab avidity, and neutralizing Ab against SARS-CoV-2 wild type and B.1.351 variant were assessed at days 0, 21, 28, and 49.

**Results**

SARS-CoV-2 naïve residents had lower Ab responses to BNT162b2 mRNA vaccination than naïve staff. These poor responses involved lower levels of IgG to all domains of the vaccine antigen, lower avidity of RBD IgG, and lower levels of Ab neutralizing the vaccine strain. No naïve resident had detectable neutralizing Ab to the B.1.351 variant. High and comparable Ab responses were observed in residents and staff previously infected with SARS-CoV-2. Clustering analysis revealed that poor vaccine responders not only included naïve residents but also naïve staff, emphasizing the heterogeneity of responses to mRNA vaccination in the general population. 

**Conclusions**

The poor Ab responses to mRNA vaccination observed in infection naïve residents and in some naïve staff members of NH suggest suboptimal protection against breakthrough infection, especially with variants of concern. Adapted vaccination regimens may be needed to provide optimal protection against COVID-19 to vulnerable populations.
## Comment #3


So this is based on only two nursing homes?  Why such a tiny study group?
# Highly-specific memory B cells generation after the 2nd dose of BNT162b2 vaccine compensate for the decline of serum antibodies and absence of mucosal IgA


Created: 2021-06-10 08:42:11



https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.06.08.21258284v1
## Comment #1


**Reminder:** This post contains a **preprint** that has **not been peer-reviewed.**

Readers should be aware that preprints have not been finalized by authors, may contain errors, and report info that has **not yet been accepted or endorsed in any way by the scientific or medical community.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


**Abstract**

Specific memory B cells and antibodies are reliable read-out of vaccine efficacy. We analyzed these biomarkers after one and two doses of BNT162b2 vaccine. The second dose significantly increases the level of highly-specific memory B cells and antibodies. Two months after the second dose, specific antibody levels decline, but highly specific memory B cells continue to increase thus predicting a sustained protection from COVID-19. We show that although mucosal IgA is not induced by the vaccination, memory B cells migrate in response to inflammation and secrete IgA at mucosal sites. We show that first vaccine dose may lead to an insufficient number of highly specific memory B cells and low concentration of serum antibodies thus leaving vaccinees without the immune robustness needed to ensure viral elimination and herd immunity. We also clarify that the reduction of serum antibodies does not diminish the force and duration of the immune protection induced by vaccination. The vaccine does not induce sterile immunity. Infection after vaccination may be caused by the lack of local preventive immunity because of the absence of mucosal IgA.
# Community-level evidence for SARS-CoV-2 vaccine protection of unvaccinated individuals


Created: 2021-06-10 14:15:54



https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-021-01407-5
## Comment #1


**Please read before commenting.**

Keep in mind this is a *science* sub. Cite your sources appropriately (No news sources, no Twitter, no Youtube). No politics/economics/low effort comments (jokes, ELI5, etc.)/anecdotal discussion (personal stories/info). Please read our [full ruleset](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/about/rules/) carefully before commenting/posting.

**If you talk about you, your mom, your friends, etc. experience with COVID/COVID symptoms or vaccine experiences, or** ***any*** **info that pertains to you or their situation, you will be banned.** These discussions are better suited for the Daily Discussion on /r/Coronavirus.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


Fig. 1: An increase in the fraction of vaccination in a community is associated with a later reduction in the number of confirmed infections of the unvaccinated cohort in the same community.

[https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-021-01407-5/figures/1](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-021-01407-5/figures/1)

(note the log scale)
# Pre-infection 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 levels and association with severity of COVID-19 illness


Created: 2021-06-10 12:39:00



https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.06.04.21258358v1
## Comment #1


**Reminder:** This post contains a **preprint** that has **not been peer-reviewed.**

Readers should be aware that preprints have not been finalized by authors, may contain errors, and report info that has **not yet been accepted or endorsed in any way by the scientific or medical community.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


Key extracts:Multivariate analysis in individuals with prior VitD levels found that compared with those with mild or moderate COVID19 disease, those with severe or critical disease were 14 times more likely to have VitD deficiency <20g/nl.

While 48.1% of VitD deficient <20 ng/mL patients had severe disease courses, less than 10% of patients with VitD levels ≥20 ng/mL had severe courses.

While the mortality of patients who had VitD levels ≥20 ng/mL was at 5% or lower, the mortality of VitD deficient patients <20 ng/mL was much higher, at 25.6%.

\---

\---
## Comment #3


Abstract  
Objective Studies have demonstrated a potential link between low vitamin D levels and both an increased risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2 and poorer clinical outcomes but have not established temporality. This retrospective study examined if, and to what degree, a relationship exists between pre-infection serum vitamin D levels and disease severity and mortality of SARS-CoV-19.  
  
Design and patients   
The records of individuals admitted between April 7th, 2020 and February 4th, 2021 to the Galilee Medical Center (GMC) in Nahariya, Israel with positive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for SARS-CoV-2 were searched for vitamin D (VitD) levels measured 14 to 730 days prior to the positive PCR test.  
  
Measurements   
Patients admitted to GMC with COVID-19 were categorized according to disease severity and VitD level. Association between pre-infection VitD levels and COVID-19 severity was ascertained utilizing a multivariate regression analysis.  
  
Results   
Of 1176 patients admitted, 253 had VitD levels prior to COVID-19 infection. Compared with mildly or moderately diseased patients, those with severe or critical COVID-19 disease were more likely to have pre-infection vitamin D deficiency of less than 20 ng/mL (OR=14.30, 95%, 4.01-50.9; p < .001); be older (OR=1.039 for each year, 95% CI for OR, 1.017-1.061; p< .01), and have diabetes (OR=2.031, 95% CI for OR, 1.04-3.36; p= 0.038). Vitamin D deficiency was associated with higher rates of mortality (p<0.001) and comorbidities including COPD (p=0.006), diabetes (p=0.026), and hypertension (p=0.016).  
  
Conclusions   
Among hospitalized COVID-19 patients, pre-infection deficiency of vitamin D was associated with increased disease severity and mortality.
# Deep spatial profiling of human COVID-19 brains reveals neuroinflammation with distinct microanatomical microglia-T cell interactions


Created: 2021-06-09 20:30:01



https://www.cell.com/immunity/fulltext/S1074-7613(21)00246-6
## Comment #1


**Please read before commenting.**

Keep in mind this is a *science* sub. Cite your sources appropriately (No news sources, no Twitter, no Youtube). No politics/economics/low effort comments (jokes, ELI5, etc.)/anecdotal discussion (personal stories/info). Please read our [full ruleset](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/about/rules/) carefully before commenting/posting.

**If you talk about you, your mom, your friends, etc. experience with COVID/COVID symptoms or vaccine experiences, or** ***any*** **info that pertains to you or their situation, you will be banned.** These discussions are better suited for the Daily Discussion on /r/Coronavirus.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


Abstract:  

> COVID-19 can cause severe neurological symptoms, but the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are unclear. Here, we interrogated the brain stem and olfactory bulb in COVID-19 patients postmortem using imaging mass cytometry to understand the local immune response at a spatially resolved, high-dimensional single-cell level and compared their immune map to non-COVID respiratory failure, multiple sclerosis and control patients. We observed substantial immune activation in the central nervous system with pronounced neuropathology (astrocytosis, axonal damage, blood-brain-barrier leakage) and detected viral antigen in ACE2 receptor-positive cells enriched in the vascular compartment. Microglial nodules and the perivascular compartment represented COVID-19-specific microanatomic immune niches with context-specific cellular interactions enriched for activated CD8+ T cells. Altered brain T cell–microglial interactions were linked to clinical measures of systemic inflammation and disturbed hemostasis.  


> This study identifies profound neuroinflammation with activation of innate and adaptive immune cells as correlates of COVID-19 neuropathology, with implications for potential therapeutic strategies.
# Breakthrough infection with SARS-CoV-2 and its predictors among healthcare workers in a medical college and hospital complex in Delhi, India


Created: 2021-06-10 12:07:15



https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.06.07.21258447v1?fbclid=IwAR22mxEVZHkQwWroY2KeH9X4sYm1BwhCjUBkmS19nXQiV2YmoaUnVTnD4G8
## Comment #1


**Reminder:** This post contains a **preprint** that has **not been peer-reviewed.**

Readers should be aware that preprints have not been finalized by authors, may contain errors, and report info that has **not yet been accepted or endorsed in any way by the scientific or medical community.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


**Introduction**
The study objective was to determine the breakthrough infection rate of Covid-19 (SARSCoV-2) infection in those vaccinated with either BBV152 or AZD1222 (ChAdOx1-S) vaccine among healthcare workers (HCWs). 
//in a Hospital Complex in Delhi


**Results**
We enrolled 326 HCWs with mean (SD) age of 29.1 (85.9) years including 212 (65%) males.
Two hundred eighty (90.9%) [sic] HCWs were fully vaccinated while 46 (14.1%) were partially vaccinated. There were 168 (51.5%) BBV152 and 158 (48.5%) AZD1222 (ChAdOx1-S)
recipients.
A total of 36 (11%, 95% C.I. 8.1, 14.9) breakthrough infections were reported in the HCWs.
The median (IQR) time until incidence of Covid-19 infection since receiving second dose of either Covid-19 vaccine was 46 (28.2, 54.7) days. Furthermore, Covid-19 infections occurred in 65 (19.9%, 95% C.I 15.9, 24.6) HCWs vaccinated with at-least one dose of vaccine but prior to receiving their second dose or <14 days post second dose. Most breakthrough infection cases (94.4%) were mild and did not require supplemental oxygen therapy. HCWs with past history of natural Covid-19 infection with recovery were 4.5 times less likely to experience a Covid-19 infection after partial vaccination. 

[The paper goes on to note that they did not find statistical significance on any factors that make people more likely to have a breakthrough infection. 6 out of 65 infections in partially vaccinated people required oxygen. 2 our of 36 infections in fully vaccinated people required oxygen.   
Many of the HCWs were vaccinated with Covaxin or Covishield.]
# The importance of time post-vaccination in determining the decrease in vaccine efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern


Created: 2021-06-10 08:43:45



https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.06.06.21258429v1
## Comment #1


**Reminder:** This post contains a **preprint** that has **not been peer-reviewed.**

Readers should be aware that preprints have not been finalized by authors, may contain errors, and report info that has **not yet been accepted or endorsed in any way by the scientific or medical community.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


**Abstract**

With the development of high-efficacy vaccines against SARS-CoV-2, an urgent open question is whether currently available vaccines protect with similar efficacy against infection with SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC). Recent reports quantifying the extent by which VOC can evade vaccine immunity resulted in a range of estimates for the same VOC, which makes them difficult to interpret. One possible explanation for the discrepancies between different studies is an inconsistency in terms of the time post-vaccination of the sampled population. Here we present a model based on the observed correlation between antibody neutralization levels and vaccine efficacy, which demonstrates the impact of time post-vaccination on the comparison of the vaccine efficacy for VOC versus non-VOC infections. Our model predicts and exemplifies several possible consequences for vaccine efficacy in VOC infections: 1) a delay in the onset of vaccine efficacy against VOC; 2) a transient increase in susceptibility to breakthrough infection with VOC compared to non-VOC as a function of time after vaccination. We review preliminary data indicating that such phenomena are observed in studies of the B.1.1.7 and B.1.351 variants. We find that ignoring the strong dependence on the time post-vaccination can lead to contradictory reports of relative efficacy against VOC versus non-VOC, with implications on mitigation strategies against VOC and the design of vaccine efficacy studies.
## Comment #3


[removed]
## Comment #4


[removed]
# The ChAdOx1 vectored vaccine, AZD2816, induces strong immunogenicity against SARS-CoV-2 B.1.351 and other variants of concern in preclinical studies.


Created: 2021-06-09 22:37:06



https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.06.08.447308v1
## Comment #1


**Reminder:** This post contains a **preprint** that has **not been peer-reviewed.**

Readers should be aware that preprints have not been finalized by authors, may contain errors, and report info that has **not yet been accepted or endorsed in any way by the scientific or medical community.**


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


>**Abstract**

>There is an ongoing global effort, to design, manufacture, and clinically assess vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. Over the course of the ongoing pandemic a number of new SARS-CoV-2 virus isolates or variants of concern (VoC) have been identified containing mutations that negatively impact the role of neutralising antibodies. In this study we describe the generation and preclinical assessment of a ChAdOx1-vectored vaccine against the variant of concern B.1.351 (AZD2816). We demonstrate AZD2816 is immunogenic after a single dose and when used as a booster dose in animals primed with original vaccine AZD1222, we see no evidence of original antigenic sin but high titre antibodies against a number of variant spike proteins. In addition, neutralisation titres against B.1.351 (Beta), B.1.617.1 (Kappa) and B.1.617.2 (Delta), are induced in these boost regimens. These data support the ongoing clinical development and testing of this new variant vaccine.
## Comment #3


Is there a reason why they are still not using the pre-fusion stabilized protein, as most other vaccines do? Have they ever tried that and could that help the production of nAb's?
## Comment #4


Does anyone know if they'll require the same level of stage III clinical trials to get this approved or could it be approved under something similar to the flu jab? Imagine the rollout for this as a booster could be quite rapid given the current infrastructure
# Adjunct Immune Globulin for Vaccine-Induced Thrombotic Thrombocytopenia


Created: 2021-06-10 11:28:07



https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa2107051?query=featured_home
## Comment #1


**Please read before commenting.**

Keep in mind this is a *science* sub. Cite your sources appropriately (No news sources, no Twitter, no Youtube). No politics/economics/low effort comments (jokes, ELI5, etc.)/anecdotal discussion (personal stories/info). Please read our [full ruleset](https://www.reddit.com/r/COVID19/about/rules/) carefully before commenting/posting.

**If you talk about you, your mom, your friends, etc. experience with COVID/COVID symptoms or vaccine experiences, or** ***any*** **info that pertains to you or their situation, you will be banned.** These discussions are better suited for the Daily Discussion on /r/Coronavirus.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/COVID19) if you have any questions or concerns.*
## Comment #2


>**Summary**

>The use of high-dose intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) plus anticoagulation is recommended for the treatment of vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia (VITT), a rare side effect of adenoviral vector vaccines against coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19). We describe the response to IVIG therapy in three of the first patients in whom VITT was identified in Canada after the receipt of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine. The patients were between the ages of 63 and 72 years; one was female. At the time of this report, Canada had restricted the use of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine to persons who were 55 years of age or older on the basis of reports that VITT had occurred primarily in younger persons. Two of the patients in our study presented with limb-artery thrombosis; the third had cerebral venous and arterial thrombosis. Variable patterns of serum-induced platelet activation were observed in response to heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4), indicating the heterogeneity of the manifestations of VITT in serum. After the initiation of IVIG, reduced antibody-induced platelet activation in serum was seen in all three patients. (Funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.)